- [Instructor] So let's create
our first Spring Boot project with Spring Initializer.
First, we open a browser and navigate to start.spring.io.
We're going to select a Maven Project.
You can choose Gradle if you are more comfortable with it,
but in this tutorial, we will use Maven.
Use the latest version of Spring Boot,
and the group will be called calm.example.ec.
And for Explore California,
the artifact will be explorecali.
Let's click options, and for description,
we'll put Explore California Microservice.
And the package name will be just com.example.ec.
We're going to keep it a Jar file,
and for this we're going to use Java13.
I'll show you later if you want to change the Java version,
but this is what's showing right now on Spring Initializer,
which are the latest and greatest.
This UI changes from time to time,
so they may have different options later,
but this is what's being built for our exercise files.
And next we want to choose the dependencies we want to use.
So choose Menu, and then we're going to go to
Web and choose Spring Web.
And we're also going to choose Rest Repositories.
And then down in SQL, we're going to choose Spring Data JPA,
and then we want H2 in memory Database.
Finally, click the Generate Project button.
Now Spring Initializer will generate the zip file.
The decompress files are in the exercise file chapter 1-2,
and I already have imported it into my IDE IntelliJ
as a Maven project.
So here's the project imported into IntelliJ
as a new project from existing sources.
So let's see what Spring Initializer created for us.
You have a directory structure.
Let's expand this over here.
And in that directory structure we see
there's a source folder, a Maven pom.xml files,
configuration files, some Maven helper files,
and in the source main Java,
there is a com.example.ec package,
and inside that is an ExplorecaliApplication Java class.
So let's look at the pom file.
Inside the pom there is the Spring Boot starter parent,
and all of the dependencies that we selected
on the Initializer page is also in this file.
So we see JPA, Rest, Web, and H2.
And we see the Spring Boot version.
The Java version you can change here if necessary.
If you wanted to change it to a different version,
you have to check to see if it works
with the Spring Boot version you're using.
But that's where you select it,
and your own IDE may have special settings
for actually compiling in the IDE for your version.
Now let's look at ExplorecaliApplication.java file
is not a very large file but two things jump out at us.
This Java class has a main method
and there is an @SpringBootApplication annotation.
If you've been writing Java web applications
for years, it's probably been a long time
since you have written a class with a main method.
This is a major paradigm shift.
We get the main control back.
We are no longer writing code
that has to be packaged into a war
and then deployed on a web or application server.
The web server is deployed in our application.
Adding @SpringBootApplication annotation
to this class with the main method
tells Java and Spring Boot that this is where
our microservice starts.
Command line parameters or special start up
logic resides here.
With this one pom file, and the one Java source file,
we can now build and run a project
as a Spring Boot Application.